We have created a smart doorbell and security system, using the Raspberry Pi model B and various components connected to the GPIO pins. The system is placed at the side of an outside door and uses a motion sensor to scan the surrounding area of the doorstep for movement. The system incorporates the motion sensor to detect infrared  signatures, which then triggers a connected camera to capture an image of the detected person. Additionally, the system streams a video feed back to the person at the door through the connected 7 inch display, and notifies them of this through lighting one of three colored LEDs, colored yellow, and displaying the text ‘Recording!’ onto the accompanying LCD display. At night, when motion is detected, an additional light will be triggered through a relay to ensure the detected person is captured.
The source code of the project is implemented through the Python programming language. The code contains functions outlining the operations  for each connected device, as well as another to send Email messages to a specified Email address when called. When the system is triggered by motion, the captured image will be relayed to the homeowner through this method. Additionally, the system incorporates a 5 button keypad array and a motor to control the lock on the door.  When a combination PIN is entered, the system saves the code, displays it onto the LCD display, and compares the input PIN to the set PIN saved in memory. If the input PIN passes the system check, the system will trigger the door cycle function, light the Green LED, and send another Email message to notify that the door is being unlocked. The door cycle function activates a servo to unlock the door, waits for a set period to pass (default: 60 seconds), and then locks the door back, relaying another message after doing so. When the correct code is not entered, the door will remain locked, the red colored LED will be lit, and the code will cycle to allow another chance to input the correct PIN.
